Frogs. 

Github: https://github.com/FinleyMeadows/Frog-Civilization-Game.git 

 

The goal: Get your frog population to 100 froggies 

 

You start with 4 frogs. 

 

Tadpoles eat algae and other pond plants. Once they have eaten for a day, they grow into frogs. If they are ever unable to eat, they die. 

Frogs require lily pad space and bugs to eat to survive each day. Frogs can live in burrows. The player can create designated breeding grounds where the frogs can lay their eggs. 

A clock will be displayed and will have a skip to the next day button placed bellow it. The resource in our game will be time. The amount of time you should get each day should be 12 hours because you have to factor in sleepy time. To get bugs or dig burrows or build breeding grounds, the player must spend time to develop them. (Ex: In order to collect 7 bugs, the player spends 30 minutes.) As the clock reaches midnight or 0 (Depending on how we display it), the game will automatically have the tadpoles eat and grow into frogs, have the frogs eat and reproduce, and kill off any tadpoles or frogs that do not have a place to rest or food to eat. 

There should be various items displayed namely: Number of frogs, tadpoles, bugs, plant food, and hours spent in total. The hours spent in total could be a small ranking for the game. The goal could be to get 100 frogs with the least number of hours spent possible. 

A lily pad can hold 6 frogs per time-pass. 20 lily pads should be the max

Water could require cleaning throughout the game, which if ignored could have a chance to sicken the frogs and kill them. 

Frogs will most likely lay eggs based on an equation, but it could also be affected by designated spots for the frogs to lay their eggs, which could increase the amount of eggs laid. Frogs can just lay their eggs in the sandy floor, so they don’t actually need a designated spot to lay them. But we could have protected places for the frogs to lay their eggs that could increase survival rate or increase the amount of eggs laid. 

 
When you click on either the Ground, Water, or Sky section of the screen, the actions associated with that section of the area will pop up in a small menu.
Water: Collect Plant food, Hatchery?, Clean Water?
Ground: Burrows
Sky: Collect bugs, Search for loot?
Water or Sky: Add a lily pad
 

Randomizations: 

The collection of bugs/plant food could be a random amount, with the chances of higher amounts of food being collected based on the amount of time spent doing it, and any upgrades the player has bought. 

The number of frog eggs produced each day could be based on the equation: (Frogs / 2) * (a random number between 2 and 5). 

Frog eggs could have a chance of survival, that way frogs can lay a lot of eggs without the number of frogs increasing too fast. The real rate of survival is 2%. The amount of eggs laid at a time is 3000-6000 but those numbers are a little too high. We could potentially have the number of eggs laid by a frog be 500-1000 as long as the egg survival rate is really low. 

Tadpoles growing into frogs could have an 80% chance of happening rather than it being guaranteed with the passing of each day. 

Water cleanliness could give the frogs a percentage of death, as the days pass, which could range from 1–10%, depending on the dirtiness of the water. 


Upgrades/Tools: 

Tools and Upgrades will occasionally pop up in any players game. any tool can have a starting percentage like 0.5% that it will be given to the play as they pass time. As the player does different actions it could slightly increase the chances of acquring one of these items. for example, the chance of gaining the bug net increases by 1% everytime the player does the action to catch bugs.  
Percentages%%%% of tools:
Golden Bug Net: Starts at a 1% chance. As each day passes, this number should increase by 1%. Each time the player does the collect bugs action, it increases this percentage by 0.5% or 1%.
- This changes the amount of bugs caught each time from 1 - 30 to 5 - 45.
Golden Fertilizer: Starts at a 1% chance. As each day passes, this number should increase by 1%. Each time the player does the grow plant food action, it increases this percentage by 0.5% or 1%.
- This changes the amount of plant food gained each time from 1 - 30 to 5 - 45.
Golden Hammer: This should start at 5%. Each time a burrow is filled with 5 frogs, this percentage will increase by 2% <-- CHANGE THIS NOW CAUSE ITS BAD -----=-------=--=-=-=
Water Filter:




WHAT DOES THE MENU ACTUALLY LOOK LIKE:


TODOs:
1. Code the Grow Plant Food action
   - This action should take 1 hour to grow a number of plant food based on this equation: random number between 1 and 30. This will add the amount of food gained
to the total food in the players display. This should also modify the RockBed sprite to show more food if it passes a certain threshold.

2. Code the Collect Bug Food action
   - This action should take 1 hour to collect a number of bugs based on this equation: random number between 1 and 30. This will add the amount of bugs collect to
the total bug food stat in the players display. This will also potentially change the number of bugs displayed in the sky, based on the number of bugs the player currently has.

4. Code the Create A Frog Home action
   - This action will require 4 hours and will create a decorated, homey, burrow that 5 frogs can live in. The burrows will already appear on the screen but they will be unihabited
and empty. Once the burrow is decorated and furnished, 5 frogs can inhabit the burrow each night. Either an ArrayList or map should probably be created to allow traversal of frogs and if their 'hasHome' variable is true. As the player sleeps each night, there is a check that the number of frogs that have a home and the number of burrows multiplied by five are equal to each other. If they are not equal, frogs should be selected to have a house until the burrow space and number of housed frogs is equal. The biggest reasons these numbers would not be equal are if 1. a new burrow is created or 2. a currently housed frog dies, in the which case a new frog should take their spot. All of these checks should happen before a frogs survival is calculated to insure correct calculations.

5. Code the Add Lily Pad to Pond action
6. Create a display for different statistics
7. Code a way to track time
8. Create Art
   - Eggs
   - bugs
   - empty burrow
   - 
9. Code the day system
   - Calculates frogs survival
   - Calculates eggs hatching
   - Calculates tadpoles growing and survival
   - Calculates the amount of food eaten
   - Calculates the number of eggs laid
   - Create a "new day" screen that displays the current day and the all of the resource changes that happened overnight.
10. Make Custom Buttons
EXTRAs:
2. Add tools and items, as well as the Search for Loot action
3. Code the Clean the Water action
   - Create different water arts to show dirtiness
4. Fancify the statistic displays



HOW THE DAY SYSTEM WORKS:
When the day is over, many calculations and updates take place. A frogs survival is based on these factors; a burrow to shelter in, 3 bugs to eat and lily pad access to eat them with, as well as clean water which can save the frogs from getting sick. Each of these has a different weight on survival. Frogs have a base 15% chance of survival. Burrows add a 30% chance of survival, If a lily pad is available - each bug eaten by the frog add a 10% chance of survival, and clean water adds a (25 - 0.25(dirtiness of water(1-100)))% chance of survival. However tadpoles is based off two factors; 2 plant food to eat and clean water. Tadpoles have a base 10% chance of survival. Each plant food eaten adds a 20% chance of survival. And clean water adds a (50 - 0.50(dirtiness of water(1-100)))% chance of survival. If a tadpole survives and has not hatched from an egg during this cycle, it has a 70% chance of growing up into a frog. A frog that has not grown from a tadpole this cycle will hatch 500-1000 eggs. Eggs hatch rates are based on the number of days. 0 days: 0% 1 day: 20% 2 days: 35% 3 days: The eggs die. If the dirtiness of the water surpasses 60% (this number is just a guess) than all eggs in the pond immediately die. Bugs also have a 20% chance to leave the pond area. Once all of these calculations have taken place, a display screen will be shown, giving the player information on all the changes that have been made.




